---
useful: true
layout: post
title:  "Should you grind Leetcode?"
date:   2020-07-28
comments: twitter
categories: career
---

I have always hated the technical interview process, mostly because I don't
enjoy practicing Leetcode problems.

It is one of those dumb things in college that if you don’t do it, others will
get ahead of you. If you want to secure those "prestigious internships", you
have to grind Leetcode.

Convincing myself to grind Leetcode was hard. It was hard to accept that life is
unfair. Why do I need to do something I don’t like to get something I want? In
one of my technical interviews during my freshman year, as an icebreaker, the
interviewer asked if I like algorithms. I told him to his face that I hated
algorithms.  I also made sure to mention that I believed all technical
interviews were a waste of time. I didn’t get the job. Not too surprising!

<br/>

---

<br/>

Today, I am a fourth-year student about to graduate. Not too long ago, I was on
the phone chatting with a younger friend who was worried about his upcoming
internship search. He asked me for advice because he thinks I am an expert at
internship hunting. And of course, being extremely flattered, I told him to
grind Leetcode.

Pretty ironic right? Not to mention that the young lad also hates practicing
Leetcode questions. He prefers building side projects, code that makes a
real-life impact.

I told him, like how the seniors told me back in the days: life is hard; there
is no shortcut; now go home and grind Leetcode.

Did I change my mind? Not really. I still think grinding Leetcode is dumb. But
it is a necessary evil until companies realize it is dumb. The good news is that
many companies have already [revamped their SWE hiring
process](https://github.com/poteto/hiring-without-whiteboards).

Coding is about translating one’s thought process into code. In the real world,
software engineers translate business logic (what they want the computer to do)
into maintainable and performant code. The purpose of whiteboard interviews is
to ensure that the candidate knows how to do this translation. They give you a
specification in the form of a programming puzzle. Then, you translate it into
code.

Here is an example of a successful whiteboard interview from the candidate’s
perspective
1. Understand the programming puzzle
2. Come up with an algorithm to solve the puzzle
3. Implement the algorithm (translate thoughts into code)

In my opinion, only the third step somewhat reflects one’s real-world
programming skills. Grinding Leetcode will help you to be good at all three
steps. However, being good at the first two steps is not very useful for most
software engineering roles.

<br/>

---

<br/>

So, should you grind Leetcode?

I might be wrong, but here are my two cents. I believe that every student
interested in pursuing a software engineering career should do at least one
internship at a "big shop" (Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Apple, etc). At
these companies, you will see what **good** looks like: world-class developer
tools, mature product development process, rigorous performance review
framework, etc. If those companies conduct Leetcode-style interviews, you should
grind Leetcode. As of now, both Facebook and Google ask Leetcode-style questions
in their software engineering internship interviews. If you want to work there,
you should grind Leetcode.
