---
layout: post
title:  "[Reading Reflection] Carbon Capture"
date:   2020-06-30
comments: true
categories: book
---

For years, I have been hearing people talking about climate change. However, I
never got the chance to dig into it, until recently I read Ryan Orbuch's
[post](https://www.orbuch.com/carbon-removal/) on Carbon removal. This book was
briefly mentioned in the post. I decided to give it a read because of the
credibility of the author as well as the publisher. This book is my first stab
at this climate tech rabbit hole.

Climate change is happening because we have emitted too much CO2. There are many
ways to address it: mitigation (don't emit as much CO2), adaption (just change
our lifestyle to deal with this rise of temperature), Carbon Dioxide removal
(trying to capture CO2 in the atomsphere), etc. The author suggests that
mitigation would be the most effective way in the long run.

There are many mitigation techniques. The two most popular ones are (1) moving
towards renewable energy sources such as Hydro, Nuclear, Wind, Solar; and (2)
lowering the CO2 emission of existing fossil fuel plants using the technique of
Carbon Capture.

The book primarily focuses on Carbon Capture. The first half of the book
provides an overview of the history as well as the current state (as of 2018) of
the Carbon Capture technology. I learned the different ways of reducing CO2
emission from coal plants, as well as how we would store these captured CO2.

The book also brieifly touches on NETs (negative emission technologies). The
author suggests that currently NETs are not scalable enough. The most popular
NET is planting trees, and it is still orders of magnitude away from the target.
However, NETs do get more hype from the public due to the simplicity of its
concept.

The second half of the book discusses the current political climate around
addressing climate change. There are two ways for policy makers to address
climate change: "market pull" and "technology push". Market pull is about
implementing the carbon tax. The author thinks it is the most effective approach
because we could just let the market decide on what would be the best technology
to address climate change. However, this strategy is not favoured by most
politicians because carbon tax might impact their reelection. For example, they
will lose votes from people who have long commutes by car. Also it is not fair
since many states (eg. Washington) have geographical advantages so they could
build hydro plants, but many states do not have this advantage so they have to
rely on fossil fuels (eg. West Virginia). Technology push is about government
giving out grants to fund R&D that addresses climate change. However, it would
be up to the government to pick who would receive the grant, so it is more
biased than the "Market Pull" approach.

The author argues that we should not soley rely on renewable energy, since solar
and wind plants are not very reliable; not every region can build hydro plants;
and nuclear is controversial. In addition, since the majority of the power
plants are fossil-fuel-based, implementing Carbon Capture is significantly
cheaper than migrating them to renewable energy plants.

Overall, I really enjoyed this book. It fed my curiosity and I learned a lot
about the current landscape of addressing climate change. However, I suspect
that the author might be biased towards "Carbon Capture" over other mitigation
technologies.

I was also surprised by how political the issue of climate change is. The
technology seems to be ready. The only bottleneck is public policies, which are
influenced by the economy and the culture (how the voters perceive this). I
wonder what I can do to contribute to this.

&nbsp;

Check out my [bookshelf](/bookshelf) for more reflections like this!
