---
layout: post
title:  "The next big thing"
date:   2020-06-25
comments: false
categories: career
---

I have always been very proud of this blog. So proud that I even put it on my
[resume](https://s3.amazonaws.com/lpan-resume/resume.pdf). In fact, showcasing
this blog on my resume, has proven to be very effective. I managed to secure an
internship offer at Datadog two years ago, beating many fourth-year students
when I was just a confused sophomore, simply because the interviewer really
liked [one of my blog posts]({% post_url 2017-08-19-what-i-learnt-from-viw %}).

The blog post that impressed the hiring manager at Datadog is still on my resume
today, despite it having been written almost three years ago. Recently, a
founder of a venture-backed start-up reached out to me and asked if I want to
join his 15-person engineering team. During our chat, he told me that he was
particularly impressed with my blog. He claimed that he has read all of my blog
posts, and he said that he could tell, just from these posts, that I am "one of
them". According to him, I am a builder, someone who is curious and willing to
take risks. It also seems that the blog has been circulated within that company.
When I was chatting with a few other engineers on the team as part of the
interviewing process, many of them also expressed how they liked my blog. The
interview went well and I ended up getting an offer, with a very generous
package for my experience level.

I have no intention to boast here. In fact, I will probably be doing the
opposite in this blog post. I am no longer the person depicted in this blog, the
builder, the risk-taker, the self-proclaimed entrepreneur. I changed. Here is a
quote from the first post published on this blog, ["Hello World"]({% post_url
2016-11-15-hello-world %}).

> I am not satisfied to be just an engineer. I want to bring real revolutionary
  changes to our society and make it a better place.

I changed. How ironic. It has been more than a year and a half since I wrote my
last blog post. It has been, I don't know how long, since I revisited my first
blog post, "Hello World". When I was reading the quote above just earlier today,
I was shocked. It might sound stupid but it almost made me cry. I was no longer
the adventurous, risk-taking, and ambitious me.

&nbsp;

I first got into coding in 2015, purely because I wanted to build things. My
high school at the time didn't offer any Computer Science courses, and I
received zero pressure from my parents. I taught myself HTML and CSS just
because I wanted to build websites. I built a lot of them, and even launched
some of them in the wild. I didn't care about making any money. I would be
satisfied just by watching the total number of users reaching 3 digits on the
Google Analytics dashboard.

Another quality that I had, and that fortunately still sticks with me today, is
the willingness to dig deep into things. When I learned HTML and CSS in 2015
just because I wanted to build websites, I quickly became aware of the
industry-standard tools, thanks to the Internet and a few mentors I met on the
way. I learned about the then-popular movement of SPAs (single page
application). I learned that people use Vim to edit code, and use Git to
"manage" it. I taught myself Angular JS, and then React. I got myself a Twitter
account so I could follow [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov).

I eventually managed to find myself a Web Development internship, earning 20 CAD
an hour, in the summer of 2016 right before I started University. I had zero
connection then. I just wanted a job, and preferably something that involves
coding. So I searched on Craigslist and Indeed, and applied to at least 100
postings. Luckily, two got back to me. One was for an internship position at a
local software agency, who turned me down after learning that I was only 18 when
I showed up in person. The other was for an QA position at a hip local internet
start-up called Plotly. I managed to impress the interviewer with how much I
know about NPM and Webpack that he just decided to hire me on the spot and put
me on the front-end team.

My story is far less glamorous than the success stories of these teenage
outliers———young entrepreneurs who teach themselves coding at 13 and sell their
start-ups to Facebook at 17. But I believe my story is truly special. It was
about a boy who is passionate about building things that would create value, and
make our world a bit better. He learned to code, decided to pursue tech, and
went to the University of Waterloo to study Software Engineering. It all started
in the summer of 2016. Now, four years later, what is he doing now?

&nbsp;

I am here behind my four-year old laptop typing up this blog post (I bought this
computer with the money I made from the job at Plotly right before I started
University in September 2016). In the past four years, I did five other
internships at five different companies working on completely different things.
  - Worked with PM and designers to build user-facing features at **Universe**
  - Contributed to the low-latency time-series ingestion pipeline at **Datadog**
  - Built tooling to manage **PlanGrid's** Kubernetes infrastructure
  - Added features to **Twitter's** fault-tolerant stream processing engine
  - Designed API and evolved complex data models at **Stripe**

I can say that I am a much better engineer than the old me from four years ago.
Thanks to these internships, I got to experience pretty much every software
engineering role at a typical SaaS company: doing front-end web development at
Universe; designing back-end API in Ruby at Stripe; writing and scaling Golang
micro-services at Datadog; developing infra tooling and tweaking YAML files at
PlanGrid; maintaining a critical but legacy infrastructure system in Java and
C++ at Twitter. There is still a lot for me to explore, but I believe that I now
have a pretty good sense of what I should expect from a software engineering
career. I have also met many extremely intelligent and inspiring people during
these internships who still serve as my mentors even to this day.

I also went through the *rigorous* CS education at the University of Waterloo.
They made us write a compiler that could take a subset of Scala to output MIPS
machine code. As part of the Operation Systems course's group project, my
friends and I wrote a minimal kernel that could run on an ARM board. I think
they just made us write a lot of code, especially C++. We also had to take many
math/engineering courses such as Control Systems and Graph Theory, on top of
Calculus, Stats, Algebra, and many other first-year courses.

Back home in Montreal, I was pretty much the only kid who was interested in
tech. Everyone else wanted to get into med school. However, at Waterloo,
everyone seems to be into the same thing as I am. We shared a collective goal,
and we motivated each other, implicitly via the impostor syndrome, to keep us on
the grind.

&nbsp;

I am way more capable than what I was four years ago. This is not limited to my
technical abilities. I also learned how to break things down logically so I
could make better decisions, as well as take responsibility for them. I learned
how to think clearly. I have also become more self-aware. I learned how to cook
myself nutritious meals. I developed a routine and I have become more fit, both
physically and mentally.

However, comparing to the me before University, I found that I have become
passive, occupied with things that are not initiated by me. I felt that I was
pushed to follow train tracks laid by others. For example, chasing prestigious
internships and getting a full-time job offer with the highest possible
compensation package.

I don't regret chasing these prestigious internships———forcing myself to read
these technical books (shout out to "Designing Data-Intensive Applications"),
grinding Leetcode, and preparing for interviews. Without these efforts, I
wouldn't have such a diverse work experience, and I wouldn't meet my mentors.
However, one thing to note is that I wasn't being deliberate. I went on this
path because everyone else was doing it.

For the past few months, I felt slightly unhappy. I wasn't satisfied with my
current personal development trajectory, even though I was still proud of
myself, my discipline, and hard work.

I have been doing a lot of journaling and reflection lately. I believe my
discontent was because of the lack of deliberation, that I have been following
"train tracks" laid by others. I have still yet to figure out my own "train
track", my *next big thing*. But I know for sure that it is the time for me to
start thinking for myself, and doing things for myself.

I am certainly no longer the same person as four years ago. But one thing that
remains is that I am still excited about building things, to make our world a bit
better, as what I stated in ["Hello World"]({% post_url 2016-11-15-hello-world
%}) four years ago:

> I am not satisfied to be just an engineer. I want to bring real revolutionary
  changes to our society and make it a better place.
