---
layout: post
title:  "[Reading Reflection] Zero to One"
date:   2020-06-28
comments: false
categories: book
---

The first half of the book presents Thiel's view on entrepreneurship and
innovation. For example, contrary to popular belief, he condemns competition and
praises monopoly.

Throughout this book, Thiel has been stressing the importance of **thinking for
yourself**. Our society has transitioned from "definite optimism" to "indefinite
optimism". Many extremely smart people, who could have created these "0 to 1"
changes, ended up getting sucked into lucrative industries such as investment
banking, simply because these professions are considered "safe". As how Thiel
puts it in the book,

> What could be a more appropriate reward for two decades of resume-building
> than a seemingly elite, process-oriented career that promises to "keep options
> open".

This is actually coherent with his "Thiel Fellowship" program. He is not
encouraging people to not go to college. Instead, he wants those who are
*capable* to drop out of this "conventional path", so that they could focus on
making "0 to 1" changes to our society, to make it better.

The second half of the book discusses the methodology to create such "0 to 1"
ventures. For example, he encourages early-stage entrepreneurs to focus on small
niche markets, and "monopolizing" on small things.

I really enjoyed reading this book, especially learning about Thiel's philosophy
on entrepreneurship. How he contrasts "definite optimism" and "indefinite
optimism" is also very eyeopening. Most importantly, this book made me realize
that, as embarassing as it sounds, I haven't been thinking for myself, which
consequently motivated me to write [this blog post]({% post_url
2020-06-26-next-big-thing %}).

I encourage everyone, especially university students studying CS, to give this
book a read.
